README.md, before:

# slave_trade_voyages
This repository is a (personal) way to engage with the history of slavery from the data science perspective.


# On the Dataset
https://www.slavevoyages.org provides since 1999 dataset on the trans-Atlantic and intra-American slave trade.
This present repository thus holds files I downloaded from their website to help me understand the data as well
as well as notebooks and plots generated from the Trans-Atlantic and Intra-American Slave Trade Databases. 

 
# Some Findings and Insights from a Preliminary EDA (Check the Plots-folder for the visualization)

1. Only 50% of the vessels completed their voyages as intended. 5% of the vessels arriving in Africa have a 
   subsequent fate that is unknown. 10% of the vessels left their home ports and were never heard of again. 
   
   ![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Fate%201.png)

2. More than 30% of the slaving ships flew the flag of Great Britain. Portugal around 15%, Spain 4% and the                   USA
5%. A little bit more than a quarter of the flags were not specified.

![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Percentage%20of%20Flags.png)

3. Mary, Nancy, NS do Rosario S Antônio e Almas, NS da Conceição S Antônio e Almas were the most common ship 
names. 
![alt text]()

4. Ships essentially flew the flag of the territory where they were constructed. 

5. Most freqent rig types in the dataset:

Ship, Brig, Schooner,Bergantim, Curveta, Snauw, Galera, Brigantine, Sumaca, Sloop, Patacho, Navio mercante  , Fregat, Galeta...            

![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Rig%20and%20Values.png)


6. The Royal African Company, William James, Compagnies des Indes,  Companhia Geral do Grão Pará e Maranhão,
William Boats, Companhia Geral de Pernambuco e Paraíba owned more than half of the vessels.

![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Vessel%20Owner.png)

7. 70% of Slaves were disembarked in the Americas
![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Fate%20of%20slaves.png)

Commit message:

Added plot on the state of the data

README.md, after:

# slave_trade_voyages
This repository is a (personal) way to engage with the history of slavery from the data science perspective.


# On the Dataset
https://www.slavevoyages.org provides since 1999 dataset on the trans-Atlantic and intra-American slave trade.
This present repository thus holds files I downloaded from their website to help me understand the data as well
as well as notebooks and plots generated from the Trans-Atlantic and Intra-American Slave Trade Databases. 

### A View of the State of the Data 

![alt text] (https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/nullity_matrix.png)

There are quite a lot of columns with missing values. 


# Some Findings and Insights from a Preliminary EDA (Check the Plots-folder for the visualization)

1. Only 50% of the vessels completed their voyages as intended. 5% of the vessels arriving in Africa have a 
   subsequent fate that is unknown. 10% of the vessels left their home ports and were never heard of again. 
   
   ![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Fate%201.png)

2. More than 30% of the slaving ships flew the flag of Great Britain. Portugal around 15%, Spain 4% and the                   USA
5%. A little bit more than a quarter of the flags were not specified.

![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Percentage%20of%20Flags.png)

3. Mary, Nancy, NS do Rosario S Antônio e Almas, NS da Conceição S Antônio e Almas were the most common ship 
names. 
![alt text]()

4. Ships essentially flew the flag of the territory where they were constructed. 

5. Most freqent rig types in the dataset:

Ship, Brig, Schooner,Bergantim, Curveta, Snauw, Galera, Brigantine, Sumaca, Sloop, Patacho, Navio mercante  , Fregat, Galeta...            

![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Rig%20and%20Values.png)


6. The Royal African Company, William James, Compagnies des Indes,  Companhia Geral do Grão Pará e Maranhão,
William Boats, Companhia Geral de Pernambuco e Paraíba owned more than half of the vessels.

![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Vessel%20Owner.png)

7. 70% of Slaves were disembarked in the Americas
![alt text](https://github.com/wzoungrana/slave_trade_voyages/blob/master/Plots%20and%20Figures/Fate%20of%20slaves.png)
